# Example Two Capacitors in Series

## 07. Capacitors

### Tóm tắt nội dung

And Bây giờ I want to look at what happens in circuits where there's more than one tụ điện. Vậy again chúng ta có our basic phương trình that q equals to the điện dung multiplied by the hiệu điện thế and that's fine if there is only one tụ điện one hiệu điện thế. Đúng. We want to find the điện tích on it but what happens Bây giờ if there's two and they're connected one after another. We say that when they're connected in this way as shown in the figure that they are in series with one another. OK. Vậy we'd like to be able to answer how much điện tích is there on each tụ điện and also what is the hiệu điện thế between the plates. Is the hiệu điện thế the same. OK. Again let's assume that they're different. They could be the same điện dung that'll be a limiting case but let's just assume that they're different. We'll give them some values. Let's give a battery a hiệu điện thế and let's do the calculation. Ideally what we want to be able to do is simplify complicated circuits that have more than one tụ điện into something that's simpler. Vậy I'm also going to show you how you can write this circuit here how you can represent it using a one battery the same battery that's connected up here and instead of having two what chúng ta có thể do is just represent this more complicated circuit by a simplified circuit. And what I'm doing here is I'm going to tạo ra an equivalent điện dung that is going to be equivalent to both values like this. Vậy the value over here is not C1 or C2 but it's going to be some equivalent value of both combinations. Vậy let me show you how to do that and how to solve this problem once chúng ta có the problem boiled down to a simple circuit like this. Applying my tụ điện phương trình is super easy Đúng. Says that the điện tích is equal to C equivalent multiplied by the hiệu điện thế. Được rồi Vậy let's go ahead set up the problem and let's see what's going on. Được rồi. Vậy here's the simple circuit I have a two capacitors. These are the values I'm going to take. C One is 10 micro Feride and C two is 40 micro Feride and the hiệu điện thế is 10. Again this is an example of capacitors in series. Vậy chúng ta có two questions What's the hiệu điện thế across each plate. Vậy if I was going to kind of measure the hiệu điện thế here across the first one this would be v 1 and if I measure the hiệu điện thế across the second one just do it a different color this here would be the hiệu điện thế V to. If I measure the hiệu điện thế across the battery I would get 10 Vôn I'm going to label these points over here Vậy let's call this point a maybe point B C and D. OK Vậy the hiệu điện thế v 1 may just write this down v 1 is really the hiệu between A and B. Vậy it's kind of V A mine is VB the hiệu điện thế across the second tụ điện is really V C minus V. D. OK. What else can we say. Again this is just a wire a wires a piece of metal. Vậy actually we could say to the hiệu điện thế across A B and C has to be the same Đúng VB must be equal to V see. This is a wire it's an equity thế same thế the wires. Vậy điều đó có nghĩa là that whatever hiệu điện thế I have at this positive terminal the battery has to be the same hiệu điện thế everywhere here. Vậy this is also positive whatever hiệu điện thế I have at this negative has to be the same hiệu điện thế everywhere here because it's a piece of metal Vậy it's that plate is negative. Again if you imagine you're an electron anywhere here what you want to do when you see a positive terminal the electrons want to go this way Vậy that's going to leave this positive again. Bây giờ imagine if this Bây giờ becomes positive what is that going to do to any of the các điện tích in the middle section over there. It's going to hút all the negative các điện tích and it's gonna be the same amount of điện tích. Bây giờ where are those các điện tích come from. They came from the other plate. Vậy again all the electrons left. Vậy this one's positive and again this side is going to be negative because it's the electrons are getting repelled by this negative side of the battery Được rồi. Vậy what chúng ta có here actually which is really really important which is a property for capacitors and series only write it down it's really only four series for series chúng ta có to have that the điện tích on tụ điện Q One has to be equal to the điện tích on tụ điện Q2 what we're gonna do here is really at the end we're just gonna call this just give it one number since through the same just call it Q Được rồi Vậy let's write down our expression than chúng ta có q 1 the điện tích on the first tụ điện is the điện dung C1 multiplied by the hiệu điện thế V1 that's an phương trình what else we're gonna have. Q Two is equal to C to multiply by v 2 We're just applying our tụ điện phương trình here for each tụ điện that I could do this is kind of true for any tụ điện but Bây giờ there's this simplification because these các điện tích are all the same Vậy actually we could just get rid of that and again that is only four series that I'm able to do this Được rồi what else can we do. Vậy we really have a couple unknowns over here all we know Đúng Bây giờ is the điện dung we don't know the điện tích q we just know it's the same but we don't know the hiệu điện thế across each one but there is something that we do know we knew do know the hiệu điện thế across this battery which means that actually the hiệu điện thế across the battery has to be the hiệu điện thế across this one plus the hiệu điện thế across that one because if I'm over here and I want to go Đúng across to the other side or I can either go through the battery Vậy I'd have a hiệu điện thế hiệu of 10 Vôn. Trong trường hợp này or I could go across both capacitors. Vậy actually you should be able to write this expression also Vậy this is another phương trình. This is v 1 plus the hiệu điện thế across the v 2. This here has to be equal to the hiệu điện thế of the battery. Let me just call it. Let's just keep it as V that's fine. Được rồi. Vậy this is really the second phương trình. Vậy again we want to go back and what is the hiệu điện thế across each tụ điện again this is phương trình 2. And these ones here are kind of phương trình 1. Được rồi Vậy chúng ta có to combine both of these in order to get to a final expression. Vậy the way I'm gonna do that here is I'm going to eliminate V1 and V2 here and just have the điện tích. Vậy how would you get rid of V1 V1 you can write it as Q divided by C 1 and that's using this top phương trình plus q divided by C 2 and that there has to be equal to V Được rồi. Bây giờ you can see we only have one unknown in this phương trình Đúng here Vậy I could factor out the Q we do that it's going to look something like this. Let's give myself a bit of space here. I factor out the Q I'll open up kind of a big bracket and here I have one over C one plus one over C2 and this here equals to V the hiệu điện thế across the battery. Được rồi the last thing all you have to do Bây giờ is simply bring this curly bracket term on the other side. OK Vậy the final expression that you get is that the điện tích q is equal to some number that looks like this one over see one plus one over C2. And this is to the negative one because I have to bring it to the denominator and multiplied by the hiệu điện thế. You see this form of the phương trình here. It looks very very similar to this one that the charged Q is proportional to the hiệu điện thế across the tụ điện except the value over here this guy here is more complicated the more complicated because there is more than one. Vậy actually it turns out that you're able to rewrite this circuit here and express it as a simple equivalence circuit and the equivalent circuit looks like this it's still the same battery again. And Bây giờ we're going to have an equivalent tụ điện in the equivalent điện dung is represented by this Terminator over here. Vậy C equivalent is actually if there's two of them it's one over C one plus one over C two to the negative one. That is the equivalent điện dung and you see if I do that Bây giờ I can rewrite the phương trình here as the charged q equals to my equivalent điện dung multiplied by the hiệu điện thế V Vậy if I have two capacitors in series with each other. This is what the phương trình looks like Được rồi we should be able to tính toán all our values. Bây giờ let's go ahead and do that. Vậy again I'm just going to make myself a little bit of space over here and let's go ahead and do that Vậy chúng ta có thể tính toán what this equivalent điện dung is and then all I have to do is multiply that by the hiệu điện thế in order to get the điện tích Q Được. Vậy let's do that over here Vậy the điện tích q is going to be equal. I'll. What is my equivalent điện dung that down over here. Vậy this is going to be one over 10 micro Fara. I'll just keep it in micro Feride plus one over 40 micro Feride. Again you could put the ten to the negative six terms if you want. At the end it's just going to give me a value of micro fare. And OK. Vậy how would you tính toán this you have to put this on a common denominator this would be for over 40. Vậy at the end this term here would be five over 40 and Vậy see equivalent at the end should be. And I have to take the reciprocal of that should give me eight micro Farid. Vậy what you end up getting here is eight micro Feride eight times 10 to the negative six and multiplied by the hiệu điện thế multiplied by 10 Vậy this simply becomes becomes 80 micro Coolum is the điện tích on each plate it's pretty straightforward. Vậy I mean is a điện tích on each one of these plates is 80 microcosms positive 80 on the first plate negative 80 on the second positive 80 over here negative Haiti micro cool homes on the last one. Được rồi. How do you tính toán the hiệu điện thế Bây giờ between each plate or their hiệu điện thế across each plate I should say. Again all chúng ta có to do Bây giờ is go back and examine both of those because we know the điện tích Bây giờ on each plate. Vậy really all we're doing Bây giờ is just using our tụ điện phương trình for each one individually. Let me do that at the top. This over a little bit. OK. Vậy let's use the first phương trình định nghĩa what is the hiệu điện thế V1 V1 is equal to the điện tích q divided by C1 it's 80 micro columns 80 times 10 to the negative 6 and divided by 10 times ten to the negative six gives me eight Vôn. Vậy V1 over here should be equal to eight Vôn the hiệu điện thế across the second one again I know that I have to have ten across here and if I've already gone down two Vôn when I cross over here it means there's only two Vôn left over here. This guy here better be equal to two Vôn you see that from phương trình to Đúng. If this is eight and this is ten. This here has to be two Vôn. Well we could also use the phương trình Đúng. The second phương trình Đúng here if we apply it to that tụ điện is v 2 equals the điện tích across the plate and the điện tích on the plates divided by the điện dung Được. Here chúng ta có 80 micro Feride micro cool on having trouble today and the điện dung C2 was 40 micro Feride at the end you could see this gives me 2 Vôn if I use this phương trình or if I use phương trình 2 Over here I'm also gonna get two Vôn. OK Vậy a couple of important things. Let's look at the equivalent điện dung if I have more than two let's get a general expression. Được. And just highlight again the key things to capacitors in series. Notice that we get a bigger hiệu điện thế drop across the one with the smallest điện dung you get the smaller hiệu điện thế drop across the object with the largest điện dung. Được Vậy let's highlight some of those properties for capacitors in series.

---

**Ghi chú:** Nội dung được chuyển đổi từ bài giảng Vật lý về Điện học - Lực điện, Trường điện, Thế năng điện và Tụ điện.

*Các khái niệm chính: điện tích, lực điện, điện trường, thế điện, tụ điện*

