# Capacitors in Parallel

## 07. Capacitors

### Tóm tắt nội dung

Được rồi I want to Bây giờ look at a different way of connecting to capacitors again. We're gonna have the same hiệu điện thế 10 Vôn same two capacitors except Bây giờ we've connected them slightly differently I've defined some points A B that's points on different sides of the plates for tụ điện C one and point C and D are just on both sides of tụ điện C two again the same questions we would have how much các điện tích on each tụ điện. Vậy what is kind of Q1 what is Q2 again what is the hiệu điện thế across the first tụ điện and what is the hiệu điện thế across the second tụ điện how do we use our equations. Vậy the first thing to notice is that this is what we say. This is a parallel configuration here in parallel because it's actually different wires Đúng. There's different parts for each tụ điện. They're connected by a different wire. They're not one Đúng after another. Vậy we say that these are in parallel with each other. You can see they kind of form parallel lines depending on how you draw them. Vậy what chúng ta có thể do is for each tụ điện is chúng ta có thể write down our phương trình. chúng ta có thể write that the điện tích on this first one has to be equal to see one multiplied by V1 you have to have this điện tích on Q2 capacitors C2 is Q Q2 and that has to be equal to the value of the tụ điện multiplied by V. We're going to take the same values here we just want to see what's the hiệu between both cases. Vậy this is kind of really phương trình 1. And although there's two equations here again both of these expressions have to be true. Vậy all I know Đúng Bây giờ is I know the value of C1 and C2 Vậy what happens Bây giờ. What about the hiệu điện thế across each tụ điện. OK Vậy this case is a little bit different. Vậy Trong trường hợp này here the hiệu điện thế across each tụ điện v 1 has to be equal to V 2 and also has to be equal to V the hiệu điện thế across the battery. Again this is a wire this whole side here is connected to the positive terminal of the battery which means this is all an equity thế it's a complicated looking chất dẫn điện. There's a plate here there's a plate here but again they're all connected over here. Likewise on this side. Đúng. If this is at a negative hiệu điện thế. Everything here has to be at the same negative hiệu điện thế Vậy you have to have the same positive hiệu điện thế everywhere here. Same negative hiệu điện thế as the battery for each case. Được rồi. And this is true if they're in parallel with each other you'll always have the same hiệu điện thế across parallel branches Được rồi. Vậy Bây giờ chúng ta có thể actually tính toán how much điện tích there is on each plate because I know the value of the điện dung and I also know that the hiệu điện thế Bây giờ is going to be 10 Vôn. Vậy Đúng away you can go back to my first equations this year would be ten times tend to the negative six fair add multiplied by 10. Vậy I would have I'm just gonna write this as one hundred again micro Q Long How about on the second one you have 40 TIMES 10 TO THE NEGATIVE six and multiplied by again ten Vôn means you have to have 400 micro columns Được and the hiệu điện thế is going to be ten for each one. Vậy V1 is 10 Vôn the two is equal to 10 Vôn and that's it you're all done for this one. Actually the other thing we could do though is represent this using an equivalent circuit. Nice thing about equivalent circuits is they're simpler. Vậy again we're gonna use the same battery and I'm going to represent it Bây giờ using a different tụ điện that I want to simplify to and just represented as one equivalent tụ điện the way that you do this Bây giờ is through this. Vậy the equivalent tụ điện is C equivalent and the value Bây giờ is basically simply going to be the tổng of both of them it's a different phương trình Vậy Trong trường hợp này it's simply C one plus C two. Vậy in this example here it would be 10 micro Fara plus 40 micro Feride Vậy C equivalent would give me 50 micro ferret. What would be the điện tích Bây giờ on this equivalent tụ điện in the công thức I would use for the điện tích on the equivalent tụ điện would be C equivalent multiplied by the hiệu điện thế. This is still 10 Vôn Đúng here Vậy the hiệu điện thế across this tụ điện has to be 10 Vôn at the end. If you substitute both of this in you're gonna get 50 micro grow by 10. You're going to get 500 micro cooling. It's actually what we're doing Đúng here is we're simplifying this or representing kind of both of these plates here kind of combining them together. And we're the same thing on the other side. On the other side we're kind of combining both of those together. If I combine both of those imagine they have the same area and I stick them Đúng next to each other. Vậy this one has a bit of điện tích. This one however has a bit of điện tích. The total điện tích that you end up getting on this plate Đúng here. I would read it as something like this that the total điện tích is equal to Q1 plus Q2 and we calculated both of those you could see that the number I just calculated using the equivalent tụ điện is 500 micro cooling. And again that's the number I would get if I would tổng up the các điện tích from each one one hundred micro cool on plus 400 micro cooling gives me 500 micro cooling. Vậy again the key point for capacitors in parallel the hiệu điện thế is the same that's really the key. If you want to represent it using an equivalent tụ điện all you have to do is you simply have to tổng up the different values. If there's three of them that are in parallel with each other I would simply add another term over here to tính toán the điện tích on each one. Again since the hiệu điện thế is the same it's pretty straightforward if you know the values in the last part is that my equivalent tụ điện has a total điện tích equal to Q1 plus Q2.

---

**Ghi chú:** Nội dung được chuyển đổi từ bài giảng Vật lý về Điện học - Lực điện, Trường điện, Thế năng điện và Tụ điện.

*Các khái niệm chính: điện tích, lực điện, điện trường, thế điện, tụ điện*

