# Problem 4 Charged Particle in a Uniform Electric Field

## 08. Final Exam

### Tóm tắt nội dung

Được rồi. Here's the last problem here chúng ta có a uniform điện trường which exist between two các bản song song. chúng ta có an electron here that's released from arrest from the mặt of the negative plate and then it strikes a positive plate which is a khoảng cách of three point six centimeters from the first. And it gives us how much time it takes. OK. Vậy let me go ahead first and just kind of fill this in. This is zero point zero three six meters and the amount of time it takes delta t is small because it's a tiny little electron. Vậy two point zero times ten to the negative eight seconds. Được. For a first question fine the gia tốc of the electron. Được rồi. Vậy gia tốc when I would think about that I would probably think about the word lực. Đúng. Vậy I'd say there's probably a lực tác dụng lên the electron and the lực is usually given by the điện tích multiplied by the điện trường. And if this is the only lực tác dụng lên this electron I can go ahead and kind of draw. Đúng here there has to be a lực tác dụng lên it like this. Đúng. If this is the only lực that should be equal to the mass times the gia tốc. Oh. Vậy my gia tốc then must be QE over m. Vậy let's think about this for a minute do I know the điện tích of the electron Yep. Do I know the mass. You might not know the mass but here let me go ahead and give it to you the mass of the electron is nine point one times 10 to the negative 31 KG something you can look up in a book. However do I know the điện trường. There's Không mention here of the điện trường Vậy I'm kind of stuck. If I if I wrote this down there's nothing wrong with this but I wouldn't be able to take it further. Vậy one thing I could do Bây giờ is maybe use some of this information Đúng here because I know it accelerates because there is an điện trường. Vậy what I'm going to do here is I'm going to use some of the Kitimat X in order to analyze this motion. Vậy one of the kinetic equations says if an object is accelerating and it starts from rest well it could look something like this plus one half the gia tốc multiplied by T. Bây giờ if I start from rest it means that this first term is zero because there's Không initial vận tốc. Vậy this is another phương trình that I have at my disposal that hãy me solve for gia tốc. Vậy Bây giờ I have to do a little bit of algebra because I know it goes you know three point six centimeters in this amount of time. Vậy Đúng away I should be on the Đúng that the gia tốc if I'm a little bit careful two times delta x divided by T bình phương and I know everything Bây giờ in this problem. Vậy I can write this down. Vậy two multiplied by zero point zero three six meters I want to have it in s I units at the end and two times ten to the negative eight. And you have to square that time. Được rồi you put that number in the tính toán you're going to get a kind of a ginormous number one point eight times ten to the 14 and that is in meters per second bình phương. OK. Vậy that's kind of my answer for chart choice A. Được rồi read. Question B. Question. B Bây giờ says what is the điện trường. Oh well this is Bây giờ I can go back to this other problem which I was kind of started off with. Được rồi except Bây giờ I'm asking for the điện trường e Vậy I really want an phương trình in terms of E Vậy I can put the điện tích down here at the bottom Vậy I kind of look like this just rearranging that phương trình. And Bây giờ again I know everything here. Vậy guess what I can just go ahead and substitute that again nine point one times ten to the negative thirty one for an electron the gia tốc we just calculated one point eight times ten to the 14 a lot of different orders of độ lớn here you have to deal with and the điện tích of the electron I know is one point six times tend to the negative 19 this is a good exercise to use your calculator and hopefully you get it Đúng. I think I got 1024 and I would write that a nuance for cool on Được rồi. Vậy this is the question. B In the last one Bây giờ find the tốc độ. OK Vậy how fast is it moving Bây giờ once it hits the other side. It started from rest Đúng. Vậy v zero is equal to zero but it's been accelerating Bây giờ for a long time. Vậy for part c again I'm gonna go back to my good old faithful Kitimat ex because I know basically everything about it. One other key nomadic phương trình which you might know is this one the square that gives me the tốc độ. V not bình phương plus two times the gia tốc multiplied by the độ dời. OK Vậy I guess what I'm gonna do here. This initial vận tốc is zero. Vậy all you have to do here at the end is simply take the square root of both sides and you're gonna get an expression for the final tốc độ. Được rồi going to put everything in the calculator again. Let me make this kind of big Vậy I have to. This is one point eight times 10 to the 14 the large gia tốc and the độ dời is zero point zero three six. Don't forget to take the square root of this number at the end. Vậy the final tốc độ of this electron just before it hits the plate. I think I got three point six times tend to the six and that would be in meters per second. OK Vậy this is a problem see Đúng here. Được rồi kind of a nice little cinematics problem just to end the exam.

---

**Ghi chú:** Nội dung được chuyển đổi từ bài giảng Vật lý về Điện học - Lực điện, Trường điện, Thế năng điện và Tụ điện.

*Các khái niệm chính: điện tích, lực điện, điện trường, thế điện, tụ điện*

