# Problem 3 Capacitors

## 08. Final Exam

### Tóm tắt nội dung

Problem 3 Bây giờ chúng ta có a thế hiệu of one hundred Vôn here is applied across two of them that are in series with each other. Được rồi. They give us the điện dung of only see one and they also say chúng ta có a hiệu điện thế across it. That's seventy five Vôn. Vậy first question what's the hiệu điện thế across the second one. Được Vậy imagine I measure the hiệu điện thế Đúng here. What value would I get. Again whatever hiệu điện thế I have over here one hundred I have to have. They have to tổng to the hiệu điện thế across both capacitors like this because they're going to be in series. Được rồi. Vậy v total that we would kind of write that as an phương trình has to be the hiệu điện thế across tụ điện C one plus the hiệu điện thế across tụ điện C two. Vậy this is one hundred. And I've given you that V.C. one is is seventy five. Vậy Đúng here this here has to be seventy five. Vậy you have to have that the hiệu điện thế across tụ điện C two should be twenty five Vôn. OK. You have to have twenty five Vôn Đúng here. Được rồi. Vậy that's it for that one. That's pretty straightforward. Find the điện dung see to it what is this điện dung C2. Well how do we do this. If I was gonna write an phương trình well one tụ điện phương trình I could write is that the điện tích on tụ điện C two is its điện dung and multiplied by the hiệu điện thế which I just calculated. OK. Vậy if I knew how to tính toán the điện tích then I could easily get to this because I know this is twenty five Vôn. Vậy how do we get the điện tích. Well there's one thing to know about capacitors in series is that the điện tích has to be the same on all the capacitors. Vậy what I could do is I could use this in order to find the capacity C2. Vậy what would be the điện tích on Q one. I'd have a same phương trình here except for Q one Vậy I would have the capacity and C one multiplied by the hiệu điện thế across c 1. And again this here has to be equal to C2 multiplied by the hiệu điện thế across C two. Vậy let's just rearrange just to get one final expression for the điện dung C to see one again multiplied by the ratio of both of these. Vậy this is easy to evaluate. I'm just gonna leave this in micro Feride Vậy this is 10 micro Feride and the ratio of the voltages here I have seventy five and here I have twenty five. Vậy this here gives me three multiplied by ten Vậy C two has to be thirty micro Feride. Được rồi Vậy I mean go ahead and write that on the figure over here. Được. Vậy that wasn't too bad. What's the equivalent điện dung of the system. Vậy there's kind of two ways to do this one one is to again remember that they are in series and if you have capacitors in series or the equivalent điện dung is the tổng of the reciprocal equals one over the reciprocal of the equivalent. It's the opposite when you do circuits with resistors. Vậy in here again I'm just gonna leave everything in microfiber adds and have one over 10 plus one over 30. Được. And Bây giờ you've got to do a bit of math over here. What I'd probably do is put this on a common denominator of 30. Vậy if I do three over 30 plus one over 30 excuse me for over 30. OK Vậy see equivalent. Bây giờ just gotta flip that fraction thirty over four. Được. Vậy the equivalent one should be equal to seven point five micro Feride. Notice that the equivalent is smaller than any one of the capacitors in a circuit. Được. Vậy this is kind of a one way of doing this another way of doing it is again if I replace this with an equivalent điện dung I'm going to get that the điện tích is also equal to the điện tích on the equivalent điện dung and I know what the điện tích is I can tính toán that pretty easily because I know the điện dung that I know the hiệu điện thế Vậy at the end what you could do here is simply use that phương trình Đúng there that the equivalent điện dung the điện tích on it is equal to the điện dung multiplied by the hiệu điện thế across the hiệu điện thế across would be simply a hundred Vôn. Được rồi. Vậy how much điện tích is on the equivalence I can use any one of those I can use kind of Q One multiplied by the hiệu điện thế across it and that's C equivalence multiplied by one hundred. Được rồi. Vậy C1 I'm sorry I wrote a mistake over here. This should be c 1 C1. Được. Vậy again just multiplying that through Vậy we're gonna have 10 micro ad for this. The hiệu điện thế across C was seventy five and that equals to the equivalent điện dung multiplied by 100 anyway you could see here at the end we're going to get the same value we're still going to get C equivalent equals to seven point five micro Feride. Được. Vậy that's kind of a another way of doing it for this problem quickly running out of space here. Oh. Vậy how much các điện tích on each điện dung. Không. This is super easy to tính toán. Được rồi. Because we've we've used this phương trình several times. Vậy let's just go ahead it's the same điện tích on each tụ điện Vậy once we know this again I may as well just use this one the equivalent multiplied by the hiệu điện thế. That's all you need. It doesn't matter which one you choose. chúng ta có to have the same điện tích. For me it's just easier to use the equivalence Đúng Bây giờ since I just tính toán the value. Vậy the điện tích is going to be equal to C equivalent multiplied by V across the equivalent tụ điện which is 100 Vôn. Vậy this is seven point five. Bây giờ I'm gonna go to Fair Ed Vậy it's negative six Feride and multiplied by a hundred. Được. Vậy at the end I should get 750. This will be in times 10 to the negative six. Cool on this is the total điện tích. Vậy I'm running out of space here Được. Anyway that's how you would tính toán how much điện tích there is on the tụ điện. And again it doesn't matter which phương trình you use over here. If you use any of the other ones you can use Q1 or Q2 you know the value of the điện dung multiplied by the hiệu điện thế across. You could see that all these products are going to end up giving you a 750 times tend to the negative six.

---

**Ghi chú:** Nội dung được chuyển đổi từ bài giảng Vật lý về Điện học - Lực điện, Trường điện, Thế năng điện và Tụ điện.

*Các khái niệm chính: điện tích, lực điện, điện trường, thế điện, tụ điện*

