# Problem 1 Find speed of particles

## 09. Final Exam 2   Some problems from my college physics final in 2020

### Tóm tắt nội dung

Được rồi. Vậy what I first do is xem xét this arrangement. Our first question here says Let's try to find the tốc độ when there are very very far away of each one. Vậy let's imagine what's going to happen over. Vậy three positive spheres. Imagine we were just looking at this one Vậy there'd be a lực here between Q2 and Q3. There's also be a lực between Q1 and Q3. Đúng. Vậy cue 3 is going to move to the Đúng. Vậy after a long period of time this is going to be Q3 here. It's going to be really really far away. What about on Q1. Q1 is kind of the exact opposite. There is a repulsive lực between Q1 and Q3. Vậy maybe draw a véctơ like this. And there's also a repulsive lực between Q3 and Q1. I would move that way. Vậy after a long period of time I don't know how long but it would kind of be really really far away. This would be Q1. Ah what about the middle one what happens. Well there's an interaction between Q2 and Q3 just draw like this. And then there's also an interaction like this. Vậy what's going to happen to Q2. All the các điện tích are 10 nano Coolum. Vậy these các lực are the same. Vậy what's going to happen to that điện tích. This is the really key to this problem. This one will remain stationary. OK. Because again these move out at the same rate Q1 and Q3 but Q2 will remain at the same position. Được rồi. Bây giờ a little tip if they're asking you to solve for this tốc độ Đúng here. OK. The tốc độ is a scalar quantity it's usually best to try to use energy in order to solve that. OK. Vậy when you read a question they say tốc độ. The first thing that comes to mind is a scalar Maybe I use an energy method or bảo toàn năng lượng to solve this problem. Vậy what type of energy is involved. Well again let's not worry about the các lực for Bây giờ we kind of argued what's going to happen to each one but this is how I would kind of do it Đúng. Initially what chúng ta có is some thế energy chúng ta có some thế energy here let's call it you want to chúng ta có some thế energy here between both of those this would be say two and three and then we also have some thế energy between Q1 and Q3. Vậy there's really three terms to the thế energy. Vậy and initially they're stationary. Vậy initially the động năng of the total system initially has to be equal to zero. Nothing is moving. Vậy what happens when they're far away. Again this guy here is moving like this at some tốc độ. This guy here is gonna be moving like this at some tốc độ. And this guy's gonna be zero. Vậy my final condition here is that you're going to have a whole bunch of động năng and you're gonna have very little thế energy. Vậy we're gonna set this up using bảo toàn năng lượng and then we're gonna solve for the speeds. Được. Vậy let's kind of go to a fresh page and write down our expressions for the total thế energy the total động năng. Được rồi and see how it changes from thế to kinetic in the system. Được rồi. Vậy this is kind of what it looks like. This is how I would write it. Vậy I'll do kind of initial over here. What is the total energy initial. Vậy again chúng ta có all of these different thế energy terms and initially I'll just write it like this. Initial of the system. But again I'm an across that out because this here has to be equal to zero. Nothing's moving. Được rồi. That has to be equal to. Again what is the energy when it's out here. Well Vậy you have to kind of think about is there any thế energy when these các điện tích are very very far apart. For that you have to remember what the công thức for thế energy between two các điện tích it's always going to be the điện tích a điện tích B and divided by the khoảng cách. This is the phương trình for the thế energy between two các điện tích a and b. OK. Again if the khoảng cách is very very far away there's not going to be any thế energy. Vậy kind of you final of the system. I'll just write it like this this guy here has to be equal to zero because they're very very far away. Vậy at the end all we're left with is the final động năng. Vậy how did we write the final động năng. Well chúng ta có this điện tích that's moving Vậy it's going to have one half mass m they're all the same mass I could just write it as M and V bình phương plus one half. Again this term for charged Q3 V bình phương notice I have the same tốc độ here and again I'm going to have the same tốc độ because they're identical các điện tích they were released from ress and I have the same các lực tác dụng lên each one but the các lực are in the different hướng. Vậy at the end this final energy Đúng here on this side of the phương trình is simply C add one half to one half. You're going to get M V bình phương and that's it. Được rồi. Vậy Bây giờ chúng ta có to work over here on these three terms. Let's work on these three terms Đúng here. Let's kind of write them out separately. OK. What you can do is this is the initial thế ENERGY OF Vậy let's do this one first one too what does that term look like. What's going to be my hằng số k. It's going to be the điện tích Q1. The điện tích Q2 and divided by what is the khoảng cách I'm going to call one centimeter the khoảng cách are again I'll convert that into meters when I substituted over here. Được rồi. What other term do I have. I've got the interaction between 2 and 3. Notice that one's going to be the same because I have the same các điện tích as 1 and 2. And I also have the same separation. Vậy really those two terms are going to be the same. And what about the last one. Bây giờ I have at the interaction between 1 and 3 between 1 and 3 this is what I have I'm going to have k q one Q three this time and divided by what's the khoảng cách. Bây giờ if r is 1 centimeters of the initial khoảng cách here is going to be 2 centimeters. Được rồi. Let me just kind of get rid of this two centimeters. Vậy that's actually two are because I've called R is equal to one centimeter. Được rồi. Vậy Bây giờ we've got to put it all together this is pretty straightforward. The total term here that I've highlighted in the blue simply looks like this. Vậy there's two of those terms. Vậy two of these terms I would write it as two K Q1 Q2 divided by R and then plus this thế energy k q one Q three divided by two are in all of this has to be equal to the final động năng of the system. Again the two halves ended up can't adding up to give me one in the front. Vậy let's scroll down here. Let's keep moving. Được rồi. Vậy this is simply a fraction over here I could kind of combine some of the terms remember all the các điện tích are the same. Vậy I can really factor that out. Vậy you simply have K Q bình phương because Q1 Q2 and Q3 are all the same. Then they open up a bracket. I would be left with two over par for the first term. Đúng. This and this. And plus one over two are Trong trường hợp này. Again I kind of prefer to do the problem algebraic Lee again if I want to put things on a common denominator the common denominator is two are. Vậy I would do this is to this you would turn into a four. Được rồi Bây giờ you could see I can add those pretty straightforward. It becomes five over two are guy. Vậy chúng ta có five K Q bình phương over to r equals M B bình phương. Được rồi let's go over here. I'll write down the expression for V bình phương and then I'm going to substitute in all the values. Vậy I have five over to K Q bình phương and divided by Bây giờ. Again I'm gonna have the M HERE I HAVE TO BRING THE M at the bottom are m Được rồi Vậy let's substitute in all our values I made that kind of large Vậy 5 and 2 that stays the same our hằng số K is nine times 10 to the nine. Bây giờ the các điện tích were 10 nano Coolum. That's 10 times ten to the negative nine and you have to square every. Don't forget. Bây giờ make sure everything is in the proper units Vậy the khoảng cách are was we định nghĩa it as one centimeter. Vậy this is going to be zero point zero one meters and then the mass. We kind of go back up to the question here. The mass here was one gram. Được rồi Vậy one gram would be zero point zero zero one kg. Được rồi. Vậy Bây giờ you've got a plug in this whole thing into the calculator Vậy let me go ahead and do that nine. Let's go. 5 1/2 is 2.5 times 9. Each of the nine times ten either than negative nine bình phương and Bây giờ divided by all those terms and I have to also divide by the mass at the end. Don't forget to take the square root of all of those terms. Được rồi. And I do that and I get a number that is approximately zero point for seven meters per second. OK. Vậy that is the first part of this problem. That would be the tốc độ of each one of those again. This is only four các điện tích 1 and 3 the điện tích 2 is tốc độ of 2 would have to be 0 meters per second. OK. Because we said the lực's balance for that one. Được rồi. Part B says fine the gia tốc of this điện tích after it moved a khoảng cách of 30 centimetres. OK. Vậy and it's only the điện tích Q1 and again gia tốc. Vậy again this word is a véctơ accelerations of véctơ Vậy it would probably use các lực probably the easiest way to find it. OK. And I've sketched it out here Vậy it started over here Q1 and then it moved 30 centimeters. But again at the same time Q3 moved 30 centimeters. Vậy if you were going to do a free body diagram on Q1. Được rồi. This is Q1 there's gonna be an interaction with Q2. Đúng. Vậy there's gonna be a lực tác dụng lên it. This will be the lực of Q2 on Q1. What else. There should be another lực there should be an interaction between Q3 and Q1. Bây giờ this lực is going to be a little bit smaller because it's far away. This is Q3. I'll just call it three on one like this. Vậy chúng ta có two các lực there in the same hướng. Vậy they're going to add as vectors. Vậy what I want to do is I really want to find the net lực tác dụng lên Q1. For that I have to add both of those and I'm going to add them both as vectors. Vậy at the end my net lực has to be a véctơ like this. Vậy let's add them both up. Vậy this would simply be f of two on one plus F of three on one. Again this one's expected to be smaller but let's tính toán it anyway just because the khoảng cách is going to be Vậy much bigger. Được rồi. Vậy how would we substitute this. Vậy this would be again using cool Ohm's law for this one. Again all of these terms are the same Vậy Q2 Q1 this is the same điện tích. Bây giờ what is the khoảng cách Bây giờ between Q2 and Q1. I said Q1 move 30 centimeters. điều đó có nghĩa là it's going to be a khoảng cách of 31 centimeters. Vậy Đúng here Đúng away I'm just going to substitute this 31 bình phương. I wrote it in meters Đúng here plus K. Q3 Q1 Bây giờ what is this khoảng cách. Well it's simply going to be double that khoảng cách Đúng. If you have a look at it if this is 31 điều đó có nghĩa là this other one is going to be 31. Vậy this is simply going to be Được rồi 62 centimeters away and you have to square that term. Được rồi. Vậy at the end we got a substitute in all our numbers and get one final answer. Được rồi. Vậy let's go ahead and keep chugging along. Here let me substitute in all the values I'm going to factor out the top term because it's the same Vậy K Q bình phương and then this term here simply becomes thirty one plus one over zero point sixty two bình phương. Được rồi and then I got to substitute the values. Vậy this is nine times 10 of the nine for my k hằng số Q again was 10 nano Coolum ten times ten of the negative nine. Oh don't forget to square that term and then multiply by this whole term here zero point thirty one bình phương plus one over zero point sixty two bình phương. Được rồi the last thing chúng ta có to do then định nghĩa the total lực and again once you know the net lực you should be able to find the gia tốc because it's the mass of that điện tích multiplied by the gia tốc. Được rồi and the mass I know is one gram. Vậy again we're going to have one last step at the end to get the gia tốc really all I have to do is divide this whole thing by the mass. Được rồi. Vậy let's go ahead and write down my final expression. Vậy nine times ten to the nine 10 nano columns time to tend to the negative nine bình phương term in the bracket. Zero point thirty one kind of lengthy isn't it but it's lengthy but it's doable. And Bây giờ don't forget I have to divide by the mass if what I'm looking for is the gia tốc and the mass of that điện tích was 1 grams I would write it like this. Được rồi. Vậy Bây giờ you gotta plug everything in the calculator. I'll let you do that. And at the end this is what you should get. Được rồi assuming I did things correctly I get that this term here in the brackets should be approximately 13. Vậy then I want to multiply that by nine either the nine. Multiply that by my ten nano columns ten either the negative nine bình phương equals and last term is divided by zero point zero zero one. Ha. My final answer I promise is the final answer is zero point zero kind of 1 2 and this would be in meters per second bình phương. Được rồi Vậy that would be the gia tốc of that one điện tích. Yeah not bad.

---

**Ghi chú:** Nội dung được chuyển đổi từ bài giảng Vật lý về Điện học - Lực điện, Trường điện, Thế năng điện và Tụ điện.

*Các khái niệm chính: điện tích, lực điện, điện trường, thế điện, tụ điện*

