# Field Produced by a Charged Wire

## 10. Advanced Problems (Requires Calculus)

### Tóm tắt nội dung

Hi everybody. Physics major here today where I got a great problem for you. We're going to look at the điện trường from a continuous charged distribution. Vậy xem xét the wire I've got here on the whiteboard. I want to look at three specific questions. I want to find the điện trường when I'm a khoảng cách x away from that wire and I've placed it kind of Đúng at the center of the wire. Second part is I want to take that expression and I want to see what happens when I go really really far from the wire. What is the điện trường look like when I'm really far from the wire and in the third case I want to see what happens. Bây giờ if I put my position Đúng near the wire. Đúng when I'm really close to the wire the wire looks really really long. Vậy we're going to look at our expression and take the Đúng limits and see what the expression simplifies to. Vậy let's get started. I have a wire here that has a like L and it has a total điện tích q and its điện tích is uniformly distributed over the length. Vậy let's see how to solve this problem. Được. Vậy let's start by looking at this system a little bit more closely. We've got our wire here. Got our khoảng cách x to the point p. And Bây giờ let's xem xét a small little bit of điện tích. Somewhere on the wire and the độ lớn of that điện tích is d q. Bây giờ this little điện tích is going to tạo ra an điện trường at point p and it's going to be in this hướng. And the độ lớn of that field is going to be DC. Bây giờ you notice since I've picked the position of the point x to be kind of in the center of that wire every time there's a little điện tích D Q up on the top there's also going to be a little điện tích D Q On the bottom. And that one's also going to tạo ra an điện trường with the same độ lớn. But in this hướng it's pointing away from that small điện tích. If it's positive. Vậy one thing you notice if I find this to be the angle theta This is also going to be the angle theta. What we're going to notice here is that you would re plot those vectors you'll see that those vectors can be broken down into components and the y components of those vectors are going to cancel out they're going to be bằng nhau và ngược chiều. Vậy chúng ta có thể conclude Đúng away just from the symmetry of the problem that the total field E Y is going to be equal to zero by the symmetry of the problem every time there's a little điện tích D Q On the positive y axis there's going to be another điện tích D Q On the negative y axis. Vậy their contributions are always going to cancel out. Vậy that's kind of the first part. The second part is the total field is going to be simply in the x hướng. Note Since the y components cancel and while there's gonna be two of them Đúng there's a contribution from the điện tích at the bottom and there's gonna be a contribution from the điện tích of the top. Vậy you can actually write the x component as being the độ lớn times cos of theta and we'll we're gonna do Bây giờ is we're gonna add all the x contributions from every single điện tích here along the length of the wire. Vậy in order to do that let's find what the độ lớn of DC is and let's substitute with the value of CO State it is and then we're going to add all the contributions of d e. Vậy we're left with a D E is going to be oh what's this độ lớn of the véctơ. Well this is simply the độ lớn of the field produced by a điện tích D Q That's simple that's the expression we know K the độ lớn of the điện tích divided by the khoảng cách bình phương in the khoảng cách bình phương is simply the khoảng cách from the điện tích D Q to the point where I'm evaluating that star véctơ r and I can write that in terms of the khoảng cách x and plus the khoảng cách from the origin to that điện tích let's call that y. Vậy here's my khoảng cách from the điện tích to the point. The other thing I need to do Bây giờ is find what is the angle Coast theta. While the angle coast data is also defined here. Vậy you could see Coast theta simply x divided by by R.. Vậy if you simplify things you'll have K D Q X divided by our cube. Được rồi great. Next thing chúng ta có to do Bây giờ is well let's get rid of D Q Because we're gonna have to add over all of our small little các điện tích Được. And the way you do that is through the điện tích density remember our điện tích density for this wire was simply the total điện tích divided by the total length Vậy that also means that I can write the điện tích density as D Q divided by the small length d y of this small tiny segment Được. Vậy this is kind of something you always do when you're dealing with điện tích distributions as you have to eliminate that small điện tích and write it in terms of the điện tích density. Vậy for this specific problem this is kind of what we want to do here. Được rồi. chúng ta có thể substitute that in our expression for the điện trường and chúng ta có thể replace AR with our variable or the actual khoảng cách here from each small điện tích D Q to the point p and we're left with this expression over here that D E and it's only the x component here that you're looking at is simply K X the điện tích D Q I replace it with Lambda our điện tích density times the small element of length DIY and divided by our cube while R is the root of x bình phương plus Y bình phương. Therefore our cube this is gonna be to the three R's. Được rồi. At the end you want to evaluate everything you want to find the total field and again it's only in the x hướng Vậy what you have to do is you have to tổng or integrate all the contributions of all the D X values. Vậy điều đó có nghĩa là we want to integrate the Đúng hand side of our điện trường expression here. Vậy that's K lambda x d y over X bình phương plus Y square to the three has and we're gonna integrate that we're integrating over y. We're integrating Y and Y goes if the total length of the wires L Y will go from minus L over to all the way to l over to not to simplify this a little bit further chúng ta có thể take out all the constants if you take out all the constants you're simply going to get that the total expression for the điện trường is the độ lớn of the x component is going to be KS A hằng số I could take it out of the integral land as a hằng số and left with the integral from minus L over to the L over to of x d y divided by X bình phương plus Y bình phương to the three halves. Được rồi. Vậy actually I could have factored out the X Đúng. The X is also a hằng số for this problem. Vậy let's do that Đúng Bây giờ. Let me take the X out and let's just put it out here Được rồi. Vậy let's go see how to evaluate this term Được. The next step I did was well chúng ta có to evaluate this integral and actually in its current form this is actually not that easy. Vậy what I did was I simply went up and looked it up in an integral table kind of sheet a little bit but that's OK. I think once you get this result here you can do that to simply look it up in an integral table and after you're able to write that the total điện trường độ lớn in the x hướng or the x component the field is simply going to be I'm going to evaluate this. Vậy everything in the square bracket is what I looked up in the integral table and I'm integrating over y. Vậy I'm gonna get y up here. I'm going to get X bình phương here and square root of x bình phương plus Y bình phương and evaluated between L ove$r^2$ and minus. Được rồi. Vậy the next step is you simply substitute in our limits here and this simplifies nicely to a result that looks like this. We're gonna have l ove$r^2$ divided by X bình phương X bình phương plus L ove$r^2$ bình phương and minus again. Bây giờ we're gonna have the same thing minus L over to X bình phương Được. Vậy our final expression for the điện trường or the độ lớn of the điện trường which is in the x hướng is simply going to be both of those terms that are double up. Được. They add up together and điều đó có nghĩa là that this factor of two in the denominator here is going to leave. Vậy we're gonna be left with K lambda l There's still an x term over there and this whole term is still there the square root of x bình phương plus L ove$r^2$ bình phương 1 simplification you can make you can get rid of the điện tích density remember the điện tích density chúng ta có thể write as the total điện tích divided by the total length. The nice thing about making this substitution is it's going to get the final solution a nice form because it's going to eliminate this length over here Vậy let's do that. Vậy we're gonna be left with K. The total điện tích that was on the wire divided by x divided by X bình phương plus L ove$r^2$ bình phương. Vậy here's the final expression we get for our điện trường produced by the wire when I'm a khoảng cách x away from the center of the wire. Được rồi. Vậy Bây giờ let's manipulate this công thức a little bit and see what happens when we're really far away from the wire. Vậy we're gonna make X very very big and take the Đúng limit. And what happens when x is small compared to the overall length of the wire. OK Vậy Bây giờ let's take the limit when we're gonna be really really far away from the wire. Vậy actually Ed that didn't probably exaggerate this diagram enough but we're going to take the limit here when X is much much bigger than L. Vậy how do we simplify this expression when X is very big. Well for that you simply have to expand the denominator and the way we're gonna do that is we're going to leave that x term alone. What I'm gonna do is I'm going to factor out one of the X terms from that square root rather than writing a square root. I'm simply going to write it as something raised to the 1 1/2. Vậy if I take out an X and I already had an X on the outside I'm gonna have X bình phương over here. Bây giờ I'll be left with 1 plus L ove$r^2$ bình phương divided by also going to be divided by X bình phương because I factored out x an x bình phương term. Được. Bây giờ what do we do. Well take a look at this term over here. This term in the denominator if X is very very big compared to l this term in the denominator at least the second part of it is going to be a very very small term. Vậy you're gonna have one plus something that is very very small. And the way you expand that Vậy if I have one and one plus a variable let's call it alpha where alpha is very very small. And Trong trường hợp này this is also raised to the one power. This here is approximately equal to one minus one half Alpha. Actually for this specific problem let's even just keep the one let's not even worry about this term. Đúng. If X is very big I divide by a very big number. This term is negligible compared to the one in which you're left with is simply at the field the X is simply k q divided by X bình phương. Well that should look like a really familiar result. This is exactly the fields you'd get if it was a point charged with a điện tích q Đúng here at the origin and you were a khoảng cách x away and you were really far away Đúng. Looks like a point điện tích Vậy even though you had a uniform điện tích distribution here once you're really really far away it basically just looks like a point. Vậy I kind of expect that result. Even before doing any of the calculation Vậy let's have a look. Bây giờ what happens when I'm really close to the wire. Vậy the khoảng cách x relative to the overall length is much much smaller. Vậy how do you simplify this expression that limit. Well Vậy in that limit what I can first do is I can first factor out turn from the bottom. It's similar to the previous case. Vậy let's keep those terms the same except Bây giờ instead of factoring out an X I don't want to do that because X is gonna be small. Được. Actually what I want to do this time is I want to factor out an L over to term. If I factor out an L over to term well this term here is gonna be 1 plus. I'm gonna be left with x l ove$r^2$ bình phương and everything to the 1 half might have to just think about that for a little bit. Được rồi. Vậy Bây giờ we're in the limit of x much much less than L. Vậy what can I do to this term. Again if X is much much less than L this second term is very small compared to 1. Vậy if it's very small compared to 1 Let's just get rid of it. Vậy that's also the reason why you want to factor out an L ove$r^2$. Bây giờ you want to end up getting an expression in this denominator where chúng ta có one plus something that is very very small. Được rồi. Vậy at the end once you make this approximation you can write that field in the x hướng simply going to be there's an L over to term I'm going to bring that 2 to the top. It's Kate Q divided by X and there's still an L there and I can't forget the total điện tích q over l like this and this whole term simply becomes a one the square root of 1 which is 1. The last thing I can do Bây giờ is chúng ta có thể simplify this a little bit and fir the long wire it's probably best to write this in terms of yeah here's our factor of total điện tích divided by the total length. That's simply the điện tích density Vậy you can write this as two times the hằng số K are charged density divided by X Vậy the độ lớn of the điện trường produced by a wire when you're very close to it is simply this expression over here. Again if you remember what the hằng số K is K is simply 1 over for Pi Epsilon 0. Vậy if you substitute that in there you're going to end up getting over to PI Epsilon 0 times x. Actually this is the exact same result you get using Gauss as law. I have a video on that. You can go have a look at it but if you want to find a field produced by an infinitely long wire or a really long wire you can use goats is low due to the symmetry of the problem and you'll get the same result here in the Đúng hand box.

---

**Ghi chú:** Nội dung được chuyển đổi từ bài giảng Vật lý về Điện học - Lực điện, Trường điện, Thế năng điện và Tụ điện.

*Các khái niệm chính: điện tích, lực điện, điện trường, thế điện, tụ điện*

