# Introduction to Electric Flux

## 06. Electric Flux and Gauss's Law

### Tóm tắt nội dung

Được rồi Bây giờ I WANT TO TALK ABOUT SOMETHING CALLED THE ELECTRIC thông lượng. Được rồi. THE ELECTRIC thông lượng has a basic definition. We call it Fi and usually I put a little subscript E TO REMIND ME THAT I'M TALKING ABOUT THE ELECTRIC thông lượng. First of all this is a scalar quantity Vậy it's just the number. Having trouble here a scalar in it's defined in terms of two vectors. One of them is the điện trường véctơ and it's a scalar tích with an area véctơ. I'll get back to this in a minute. Let me just kind of write this down this here's a scalar tích between two vectors if you want to write the scalar products slightly differently you can do it using just the definition of the scalar tích and it ends up looking like the definition over here. OK Vậy the thông lượng is equal to the độ lớn over here it's just the độ lớn of the điện trường. The độ lớn of the area and theta here is actually the angle between the điện trường and this area. Vậy it's kind of a little bit of the talk about area in terms of a véctơ but let's do that in just a second here. You could see Đúng here in the figure here that it's defined that if I have a square plate Trong trường hợp này if I take a hướng that is perpendicular to the mặt phẳng that's kind of what it says here. That is the hướng of the area. Vậy ví dụ if I have a circular area here Đúng here in the mặt phẳng let me draw a set of coordinates just Vậy chúng ta có thể kind of see something. Vậy imagine this here was X Y and then that would make Z like in this hướng. Được. Vậy the area for this particular circle. Well first of all I would have a particular radius. The độ lớn of the area. How big is the area of that circle would be pi are bình phương. What about the hướng. How would you định nghĩa the hướng of the area if I wanted to định nghĩa it as a véctơ over here. Again you have to draw a véctơ that's perpendicular to the mặt phẳng Vậy perpendicular to the mặt phẳng would be this hướng. This would be the hướng of the area and you could see Đúng here at the perpendicular to the mặt phẳng of that circle. Vậy over here I would simply write it in the z hướng. Được. Knowing the hướng is important because of this angle theta that angle theta is always the angle between the area of véctơ and the điện trường véctơ Đúng. You could see it Đúng here in the figure. Vậy the first definition I have here highlighted in green is for the case where you have a uniform điện trường. Trong trường hợp này the điện trường points from the left hand side all the way to the Đúng hand side. And it's more or less hằng số everywhere. Vậy the thông lượng if you look at it it basically counts Đúng. It's a number that is associated with the number of điện trường lines that go through a certain mặt. One more definition this here is actually an open mặt. It's just one mặt out in space. This is also an open mặt. When we talk about something in the next lecture called Gauss is law we're gonna be interested in close mặt a close mặt would represent like a cube or a hình cầu ví dụ something that has Không holes in it that's completely closed an open mặt would just represent one mặt from a cube ví dụ one of the walls of the cube that would represent an open mặt Được rồi. Vậy this is our definition for electric thông lượng and this is the case where E is uniform all we say is hằng số in space. Vậy the definition is pretty straightforward. Bây giờ we've looked at point các điện tích and maybe fields from wires or you're going to see later on fields from stacking a whole bunch of point các điện tích on top of each other. In that case the field is not hằng số everywhere in space. Được rồi. If you remember from point các điện tích let's me just write it over here. Four point điện tích. My phương trình for the điện trường a độ lớn any way was k q divided by our bình phương and R was the khoảng cách from that point điện tích. You can see here that the field is not uniform. Vậy actually the electric thông lượng AND IF YOU WANTED TO tính toán THE ELECTRIC thông lượng what you would need to do is really you'd have to integrate over the entire mặt. Vậy what you have to do is you have to take your mặt and break it down into a whole bunch of smaller little slices. Each one of these little slices has an area and it also could have a hướng Đúng if that area is curved. It's a little bit more complicated to do it this way but if you're taking a calculus based course you might want to do this. We're gonna see later on when we're talk about GAUSS LAW THERE'S GOING TO BE SOME simplifications we're gonna use this second form of the phương trình. Let me highlight here here in a different color. We're gonna use this form of the phương trình but we're gonna simplify because there are cases where you can simplify this form of the phương trình. OK but you might see this one looks more complicated but really all you're doing is you're adding the electric thông lượng due to each little area and you have to do this because the điện trường is not uniform everywhere in space. Được rồi. Vậy chúng ta có two definitions. I want to go back to the case that I have highlighted in green here and look at this angle theta and a little bit more detail.

---

**Ghi chú:** Nội dung được chuyển đổi từ bài giảng Vật lý về Điện học - Lực điện, Trường điện, Thế năng điện và Tụ điện.

*Các khái niệm chính: điện tích, lực điện, điện trường, thế điện, tụ điện*

