# Gauss's Law Conductors with Cavities - Finding the Charge on the Surfaces

## 06. Electric Flux and Gauss's Law

### Tóm tắt nội dung

I Bây giờ want to talk about Gauss his law and how you would apply to conductors. Vậy let's take an arbitrarily shaped chất dẫn điện over here. The one thing to remind you to remember about conductors is that the field inside a chất dẫn điện. Let's just call it the inside must be equal to zero. OK Vậy what happens Bây giờ if I place some điện tích a net điện tích on that chất dẫn điện of 10 micro cooling or what do you think happens to that điện tích. Well first of all what's going to happen is if this is positive điện tích again. Vậy what would happen would be would distribute itself on the outside mặt of that chất dẫn điện. You can't have any điện tích inside and in order to prove that you can't have any điện tích inside you imagine if you have a Goshen mặt over here which has kind of the shape which is just inside this mặt. Đúng here's my Goshen mặt if you were going to apply GAUSS LAW TO THIS PROBLEM IT WOULD LOOK LIKE THIS. YOU WOULD SAY THAT THE thông lượng THROUGH THAT mặt must be equal to the charging closed divided by epsilon 0. However have a look at it inside this Goshen mặt. If all of this điện tích goes on the outside mặt of the chất dẫn điện the charging closed. Trong trường hợp này here has to be equal to zero. Vậy we'd have that the total thông lượng through that mặt is equal to zero. The only way you can have the total thông lượng is equal to zero for any arbitrarily any arbitrary shape of this Goshen mặt is if the total field inside is zero. Because remember our thông lượng is the field multiplied by the area. Được rồi. The only way you're gonna have this phương trình is if the total field inside is equal to zero. And that's really really important about conductors Được. Vậy chúng ta có to have that whenever you điện tích a chất dẫn điện. điện tích goes on the outside mặt. Được rồi let's have a look at a slightly more complicated case Được rồi. Vậy have a look at this case. Bây giờ again we're gonna say that our total chất dẫn điện has a điện tích of ten micro cool on the outside. What Bây giờ would happen if my chất dẫn điện had a cavity on the inside of some arbitrary shape. Vậy điều đó có nghĩa là that the space inside this cavity is just empty space and all the conducting material is out here. Again it doesn't matter because e inside has to be zero. There can't be any điện tích inside this Goshen mặt. Vậy all the điện tích goes on the outside. The question is Bây giờ imagine I do this inside this cavity. I place a điện tích of six micro cool on purple điện tích Đúng here of six micro cool. Let me clean that up a little bit. Maybe use a smaller pen. Positive 6 micro cool home Đúng here on the inside of that cavity. What happens to that 10 micro Coolum điện tích. What do you think happens to it. Được rồi. Vậy in order for Bây giờ if you think about it. If I have a ocean mặt the way I have a drawn Đúng here Bây giờ I'm enclosing some điện tích. I'm definitely enclosing the six micro cooling điện tích Đúng because it's inside this purple điện tích is inside my Goshen mặt. Vậy but I do require that the field inside the chất dẫn điện has to be zero. How do I square the circle over here. The only way I can do that is if this happens over here. You pick a different color Vậy what's going to happen for me to get zero total điện tích inside here. And this is really what's required. I really need cueing close to be equal to zero. That's the only way to ensure that the điện trường is zero inside the chất dẫn điện. But if you have a look at it I'm already enclosing the six micro cooling because it's the purple điện tích inside my Goshen mặt. What điều đó có nghĩa là is I also have to enclose something else. There's also going to be some điện tích on the inside wall of the cavity. And for this phương trình to work out the điện tích of the inside wall must be equal to negative. I'll just call it I for inside wall must be equal to negative six micro cooling. Vậy this is what it looks like. Let me draw those các điện tích in pink. What's going to happen here is that you're going to have some điện tích equal to negative six micro cooling that's going to go on that inside wall of the cavity. Đúng. And all of this pink điện tích if you were going to add them all up. That would be equal to negative six micro cooling. This way my Goshen mặt definitely encloses Không net điện tích because you have six from the purple and you have negative six from the Pink. Those các điện tích cancel out which means that the total charging closes zero and the only way I can have that is if the thông lượng is zero. And that will ensure that the điện trường is zero inside the chất dẫn điện. Bây giờ there's one more thing to figure out. Well if I put negative six on the inside wall what happens on the outside wall. Previously all we had was are 10 micro Coolum on the outside. That's what we had here. This is the total điện tích of the chất dẫn điện which still has to be true. However if you think about it the total điện tích of the chất dẫn điện has to be whatever's on the inside wall plus whatever điện tích is going to be on the outside wall. We just figured out what was going to be on the inside wall was negative six. Vậy let's go ahead and do that. Vậy chúng ta có 10 micro cooling. chúng ta có negative six micro cool on for here plus whatever điện tích is going to be on the outside wall. Vậy at the end the final expression I get for the outside wall must be 16 micro cooling. Vậy điều đó có nghĩa là compared to the previous case I'm actually going to have excess positive điện tích here on this outside wall the total điện tích of my chất dẫn điện is still 10 but you have positive 16 micro cooling on the outside. You have negative six on the inside wall and this will ensure that the total điện trường inside the chất dẫn điện is still zero. Được. In the problems later on I have a shell example. Similar example to this. Vậy we'll have a look at this property again. Được.

---

**Ghi chú:** Nội dung được chuyển đổi từ bài giảng Vật lý về Điện học - Lực điện, Trường điện, Thế năng điện và Tụ điện.

*Các khái niệm chính: điện tích, lực điện, điện trường, thế điện, tụ điện*

