# Quiz Solutions Gauss's Law and Electric Flux

## 06. Electric Flux and Gauss's Law

### Tóm tắt nội dung

Vậy here chúng ta có a new problem here. Two point các điện tích a five and eight micro Coolum other place inside the queue and they give us the dimensions of the queue. Question is what is the net ELECTRIC thông lượng passing through the services of the cube. Được rồi. Vậy first thing I would do is kind of just imagine here chúng ta có our cube try to draw this in three dimensions Here's the sketch it out. If something like this and then I have my two các điện tích Đúng. Yeah this might look like they're not inside the cube depending on how I draw it but Được rồi here chúng ta có the eight micro Coolum and the green one let's just say this is a five micro Coolum. OK. Vậy what is the net electric thông lượng. Well for this one here I would use Gauss as law. Đúng. And in order to find this because the thông lượng member our phương trình and the net thông lượng what you could do is if you were really ambitious you could actually tính toán the E dot a for the total điện trường passing through all of those services but that would be way too hard Đúng. If you use Gauss is law it says that the net thông lượng through a close mặt. Vậy I'm going to call this the close mặt is the cube. One other way to tính toán the net thông lượng is just to use Gauss as law which says that the thông lượng is equal to how much điện tích is enclosed by that mặt and divided by our Epsilon 0 that permitted city of free space. Vậy at the end all you need to do is find that the net thông lượng through the mặt is equal to how much các điện tích and while both of these các điện tích are inside. Vậy điều đó có nghĩa là that chúng ta có five micro cool plus eight micro cooling and all of this gets divided by our Epsilon 0 which is just a hằng số. Vậy it's eight point eight five times 10 to the negative twelve. Được rồi just be a little bit careful over here. This guy here converted into cool arms Vậy get rid of that micro Được rồi at the end what you end up getting here would be 13 times 10 to the negative six. That's what we get for micro cooling and divided by eight point eight five times ten to the negative 12. Được rồi you put that in the calculator you should get a choice C is the correct answer. Được rồi. Vậy this is just remember that Gauss is law even though it's a cube mặt it doesn't matter. It goes as law still applies. The easiest way to find the total thông lượng is to use Gauss as law. Được rồi let's go scroll down to the next problem over here. Our next problem. Scroll down Vậy you can see all the choices. Được rồi. Vậy chúng ta có a net điện trường of a độ lớn of this value over here and is directed along the positive x axis. Được rồi Vậy when you actually draw with that field looks like. Vậy chúng ta có a field that looks like this and then it's hằng số. And the độ lớn is six times 10 to the six Nunes curriculum. Được rồi. They give us the length of the edge here of the cube this is zero point one and it's oriented like this. Vậy it's really this is the mặt that we are interested in here. Được rồi. Vậy what is the electric thông lượng passing through the shaded area. Được rồi. Vậy this is really just applying our definition of electric thông lượng. The definition of electric thông lượng was the độ lớn of the field multiplied by the độ lớn of the area and multiplied by coast of theta. That is the angle between the điện trường véctơ and the véctơ that is perpendicular to the mặt. Vậy Trong trường hợp này here the véctơ that is perpendicular to the mặt is this véctơ over here. Vậy both of those vectors are parallel to each other. Vậy điều đó có nghĩa là that our angle theta here should be zero. Vậy really all we're doing here is just substituting our values six times ten of the six. And Bây giờ the area since it's only a square mặt. What you get is zero point one and you have to square that value. Được rồi. Vậy at the end what you end up getting here should be six times ten of the four. That's the kind of a best answer Đúng here if you substitute that new calculator. Được rồi. Here chúng ta có a thin spherical shell that has a radius of eight centimeters and this much điện tích seven point five micro columns. What is the điện trường a couple different places for a one centimeter above the mặt. Được rồi. Vậy let's go ahead and draw that one centimeter above the mặt might be at this position over here. Actually it could be any position could be this one Vậy it could be any position on this hình cầu and this is kind of not drawn to scale but this khoảng cách here would be one centimeter the radius. They tell us the radius again this is eight centimeters. OK. And we're also told how much điện tích there is on the mặt. Đúng. The điện tích Q On the mặt is seven point five times 10 to the negative six columns. OK Vậy final điện trường anywhere on the mặt. This is a problem with spherical symmetry I would probably use Gauss as law. Đúng Gauss law says this that the total electric thông lượng going through this blue mặt over here is equal to the charging close by that mặt. Multiply by epsilon zero. OK. And the amount of charging close Trong trường hợp này is simply the total điện tích. Q Vậy it's Q divided by epsilon 0. That's the Đúng hand side of Gauss is law. The left hand side of Gauss is low. Let's work on that over here. That's the thông lượng. Vậy that's going to be the độ lớn of the field and multiplied by the area and the area for a hình cầu is for pi r bình phương. Được. Vậy here's what I'm looking for. Vậy at the end the field is simply q over for Pi Epsilon zero and R bình phương. Được. Vậy Q we know is this what is our value for this one. Được Vậy that's really important. Our value remember we're looking at this. This guy Đúng. This is the area of the blue hình cầu Đúng. This is area. And Vậy here would be nine centimeters. Được. Vậy areas really has to be calculated with the radius equals the nine centimeters because it's the area of the gaussian mặt. Được rồi. Vậy at the end my điện trường if you put in all the values again remember that one divided by four pi Epsilon 0 Đúng here. This is the value K Vậy that's mine nine times 10 to the 9 the value of the các điện tích seven point five times 10 to the negative six. And what else. 0 divided by our bình phương. Vậy this would be nine centimeters zero point zero nine. And you have to square that value Được. At the end put that all on the calculator and you should get a value of eight point three multiplied times 10 to the six newtons per Coolum. Được. That's just the độ lớn of the field anywhere on that blue mặt. Được rồi. What about B B's a little bit easier actually. B They want to know at seven centimeters from the center of the hình cầu. Được. Well let me kind of clean this up a little bit. Well let's just drawn near the mặt. If you're seven centimeters from the mặt you're going to be where you're going to be somewhere on the inside here. Đúng my ocean mặt would look like this and the radius of this would be seven centimeters. Được. Well if you think about this let's go back to Gauss as law goes his law says that this thông lượng through that mặt through my green mặt this time is equal to Q closed divided by epsilon 0. Bây giờ think about this top term here. How much điện tích is enclosed by this green mặt Được rồi. Think about it for a minute. You should get zero. Đúng there should be zero điện tích because all of the điện tích is on this black mặt Đúng here. Vậy if you get zero divided by epsilon zero at the end you get zero. If you think about the left hand side of Gauss is law. This is the field multiplied by the area. And the only way I can get zero here is if the điện trường is also zero. Vậy you have everywhere inside this hình cầu you're actually going to get zero điện trường because there's Không điện tích enclosed in that mặt. OK. Kind of a nice guess his law problem. Được rồi let's go to the next one. OK. Problem four says chúng ta có a metal hình cầu that has a radius of 10 centimeters of interest draw it again here's the radius r. This is 10 centimeters it has an excess điện tích again. Vậy the Q on the các điện tích to micro cooling. Được rồi. And again that điện tích is all on the mặt. Vậy what's the độ lớn of the điện trường five centimeters above. Được rồi. Vậy if you count five centimeters above this might be where the field is in this khoảng cách here is five. Vậy the khoảng cách from the center here would be 15. Bây giờ again you imagine you have a gaussian mặt over here and the ocean mặt has a radius equals the 15 centimeters. I'll just Đúng here ocean mặt radius equals zero point one five meters. That's 15 centimeters. Được rồi. Vậy Gauss is law again. That's all you have to use for this problem goes is law says that the thông lượng through that mặt is the field multiplied by the area. Always the same for anything that looks like a spherical geometry. This here has to be equal to Q enclosed. Vậy how much điện tích would be enclosed by my red mặt would be all of the điện tích. Vậy that's Q divided by epsilon 0. Được. At the end we get Q divided by four pi Epsilon 0 and divided by our bình phương. Được. All chúng ta có to do Bây giờ is substitute in all our values one over for Pi Epsilon zero. That's the K hằng số. Nine times ten of the nine Q is two micro columns tend to the negative six and divided by the radius of my Goshen mặt zero point one five and square that thing. Được at the end of the day if you plug that in your calculator you should get that the correct answer is B. Được Được rồi. That's it for that won't scroll down to the last problem for this problem set over here. Được. Problem 5 looks like this says the figure shows for Gaussian surfaces surrounded by a distribution of điện tích. Được. Vậy the Gaussian surfaces are here. Vậy here's let me choose a different color here here's Gaussian mặt. A B C and D. Được. Which Goshen mặt surfaces have an electric thông lượng equal to Q divided by epsilon 0. Vậy this is for a. And the thông lượng for this one is Q divided by epsilon 0. It's positive Q Vậy all you have to do is simply find Well which one has a total điện tích of positive Q inside Đúng. Because remember Gauss law is the thông lượng is equal to Q enclosed by a mặt divided by epsilon 0. Được Vậy chúng ta cần to find a one of these surfaces Vậy let's look at mặt a mặt a over here how many mặt A's the big hình cầu. It actually encloses everything. Vậy let's see. Vậy điều đó có nghĩa là that chúng ta có positive to Q chúng ta có minus Q And chúng ta có plus Q Vậy the total charging close by this one over here is going to be positive to Q Vậy that's not it. What about mặt B mặt. B Is this one that's kind of this ellipse soil over here and this one you get positive to q minus Q And that's it. Vậy again for B it's everything that's enclosed by this mặt Đúng here. Vậy điều đó có nghĩa là chúng ta có positive q. Được Vậy that works. And what about C let's go do mặt C mặt C let's represented here by a different color. Do the green as a service C as of this one Đúng here. Vậy how much điện tích is in close. Well you have negative Q and positive Q This is zero. Vậy zero. And the last one. Let's do it and read this here. B D D this one over here. Let's do it in red. Vậy that's a lip sort over here only has a single điện tích in it. Vậy it's negative Q Vậy negative Q Được rồi. Again this is not the thông lượng this is this the total điện tích in close. This is Q enclosed by each one of those surfaces. Vậy going back Bây giờ which one here has a thông lượng of plus q over e Vậy for choice a over here it would have to be which mặt mặt B mặt is be OK. What about B. Question B over here. Let's do it down over here. Which Gaussian mặt have Không electric thông lượng through them. If there is Không electric thông lượng it means that there is Không total điện tích inside Được rồi that Q and closed divided by epsilon 0. If you have zero Q and closed then you're gonna have zero thông lượng. Vậy the only one that has zero charging close this mặt C mặt C and that's the correct answer for Choice B Được. And that's it. Đúng Gauss is law applied to this problem is pretty straightforward Đúng. It doesn't matter on this complicated shape of the mặt it's kind of the remarkable thing about Gauss is Lord only depends on how much các điện tích and closed.

---

**Ghi chú:** Nội dung được chuyển đổi từ bài giảng Vật lý về Điện học - Lực điện, Trường điện, Thế năng điện và Tụ điện.

*Các khái niệm chính: điện tích, lực điện, điện trường, thế điện, tụ điện*

