# Gauss's Law Applied to Point Charges

## 06. Electric Flux and Gauss's Law

### Tóm tắt nội dung

Được rồi. I Bây giờ want to use Gauss as law in order to look at the look more at this left hand side of Gauss is law. Because what it can do is it can be used in order to tính toán the điện trường. OK but really only first symmetric objects. Vậy let me switch this around. Vậy for highly symmetric objects we're gonna use it to tính toán the điện trường. Vậy one symmetric object is a single point điện tích. We know that the điện trường produced by a single point điện tích at a khoảng cách are away from it. ví dụ if I take this point over here if this is a positive điện tích we know that the field points like this. And if it's let me just write this down this would be the khoảng cách are the độ lớn of the điện trường would be like this k q over our bình phương we're QS the điện tích number our hằng số K is one over for Pi Epsilon zero. Được rồi Vậy that's the result that we know. Well what if I wanted to use Gauss as law in order to evaluate this. Vậy first of all we're going to introduce this concept of a Goshen mặt. Vậy again it's a simply a closed mặt because we want to evaluate a closed mặt because we want to look at this side of Gauss as law. Vậy let me look at a close mặt and the mặt should have the same symmetry as the object. Vậy same symmetry as object. Vậy if you imagine a point điện tích a point các điện tích kind of like a small hình cầu. Vậy you're Goshen mặt should also have a spiritual symmetry. Được rồi. This is my Goshen mặt this a mặt. It's a closed mặt. Vậy Đúng. It's a closed mặt it's kind of like a hình cầu around this điện tích actually Vậy the thông lượng through this mặt is simply Q divided by epsilon 0. That's what I know Đúng. And actually what if I drew a bigger one Đúng. What if instead if I drew a bigger mặt which is also a circle here's another mặt. This other mặt here has a different radius. Đúng. This is the radius say are to the blue one here might have a radius are 1. What can you tell me about the thông lượng for the first mặt. The blue one versus the thông lượng going through the second one. Well if you look at Gauss is law if you look at the Đúng hand side of Gauss is law you could see Đúng away that the thông lượng has to be the same because both of these surfaces enclose the same amount of điện tích. And in both cases you simply have q divided by epsilon 0 doesn't matter which one you pick. OK. Vậy let's just pick the blue one because it really doesn't matter which one I pick. Được rồi. If I pick the blue one over here I want to Bây giờ evaluate what is this side of Gauss law. What's the left hand side of Gauss law. Vậy this is what it looks like. Vậy we're gonna work on spiritual objects first for spherical objects. How would we evaluate this thông lượng over here. Well again for hằng số electric fields we had this we had a course of theta. Vậy what if I say let's look at the angle theta. First of all what is this term. Again everywhere the điện trường on this hình cầu should be pointing away from the điện tích. That's what we know doesn't matter which point you pick should be pointing away. What about the area véctơ Đúng. Our area véctơ if I xem xét a little patch of area this one should be perpendicular to the mặt. If I pick another one Đúng here you should see that it is perpendicular to the mặt. This one here is perpendicular to the mặt. You can see that everywhere you look the angle theta is really equal to zero everywhere. Vậy that's kind of important because that will simplify our calculation. Vậy for this term I'm not even going to worry about it because everywhere for this object chúng ta có theta equals the Zero Được rồi. Let's look at the area Bây giờ really to get the total thông lượng is you really have to go everywhere on the mặt and you really have to add up all of the different contributions here. I don't want to get too much into the calculus here but actually for a spherical object which is what we're focusing on in this particular case all you really have to know is what is the area of the hình cầu. Because the field is going to be the same độ lớn everywhere on this hình cầu. Đúng. Vậy this is same độ lớn and it's only the same độ lớn because Magna tude it's the same độ lớn. It's only the same độ lớn because chúng ta có in a spiritual mặt that's always the same khoảng cách away from from the điện tích. Được rồi. Vậy every time you're dealing with a spherical object this term basically is always the same. Vậy it's the độ lớn of the field multiplied by the area. Vậy what is the area of a hình cầu. Bây giờ it's not the volume of a hình cầu. You might remember the volume of a hình cầu being as four thirds pi our cube. But that's volume. What about the area. This one you might not know. Được. The area here. Let's just do it in green the area of a hình cầu is equal to for pi r bình phương and r is the radius. Vậy Trong trường hợp này here if the radius is r 1 you'd be r 1 bình phương. Được. Vậy this is super important for anything that is spherical in shape. Vậy let's go ahead Bây giờ and write this down for Gauss is law. Vậy the left hand side of Gauss is law. It's always going to be the same. It's gonna be my field is a hằng số everywhere. Again it's only the độ lớn here we don't have to worry about the hướng and the total area of my spherical mặt is for Pi our bình phương. Bây giờ that has to be equal to the other side of Gauss is law. Được rồi. The Đúng hand side of Gauss is law which we said it's Đúng here. It's the total charging closed divided by epsilon 0. Vậy at the end you can see that you have điện trường Đúng here. Vậy I can actually use this to find the điện trường. All I do is I bring this whole term in the bracket down at the bottom. And if you do that you get my final expression for the điện trường. It's going to be one. I'll just regroup some of the terms I get a four pi. I'll put the Epsilon 0 with the 4 pi and then here I'm left with Q divided by. Trong trường hợp này it's R one bình phương. And that's OK. Are one bình phương is its R one because that's how I định nghĩa the radius of the mặt. Vậy it tells me that the field everywhere on the mặt which is a khoảng cách are one away from the point điện tích is given by this. This is the same as the previous expression that we had for the điện trường produced by point các điện tích. Được Vậy chúng ta có thể actually use Gauss as law. Bây giờ we're gonna work Bây giờ more on different shapes. Được rồi we're gonna work on more spherical symmetric objects but let's have a look at how we evaluate this left hand side of Gauss is law for different shapes.

---

**Ghi chú:** Nội dung được chuyển đổi từ bài giảng Vật lý về Điện học - Lực điện, Trường điện, Thế năng điện và Tụ điện.

*Các khái niệm chính: điện tích, lực điện, điện trường, thế điện, tụ điện*

