# Calculating the Speed Using Conservation of Energy

## 03. Work, Electrical Potential Energy, and Electrical Potential

### Tóm tắt nội dung

Được rồi. The big advantage of having a thế energy at our disposal and the fact that the electrical lực is a conservative lực is it allows us to use bảo toàn năng lượng to solve problems. Vậy let's xem xét the same problem a two and a four micro cooling điện tích separated by three meters. I said initially I'm going to have it like this Vậy I have some electrical thế energy in the system. Bây giờ the two micro cool home điện tích is going to be fixed in this problem. And the four micro cooling các điện tích free to move around. I'm going to release it from rest. And Vậy it's going to start to accelerate because there's a lực tác dụng lên it. And as it starts to accelerate it starts to tốc độ up. Đúng. Vậy it's going to start moving away and it's going to be increasing its tốc độ faster and faster and faster. Eventually it's going to be really really far away from the two micro cooling điện tích. The question is Bây giờ how fast is that điện tích moving when it's really really far away. Let's see how chúng ta có thể Bây giờ use this concept and use conservation of total energy in order to solve a whole bunch of problems. Vậy here's our example again chúng ta có to inform micro cool on this one is fixed and this one I'm going to release it from rest Vậy Đúng at this position I'd be able to tính toán the lực Đúng just using cool Ohm's law all the khoảng cách I know the độ lớn of the điện tích Vậy I would get a lực ví dụ of X number of cool ohms X in the first Newton's actually tác dụng lên that điện tích. Vậy it's going to start to tốc độ up. The question I have is when it's really really far away down over here how fast is it moving. Vậy in order to use this what we're going to use is conservation of total energy. OK. Vậy let me go ahead write that. And the reason I can have conservation of total energy is because the lực điện is a conservative lực Vậy the energy in this problem is made up of two different kinds. We're going to have electrical thế energy. And once it starts moving we're also going to have energy associated the motion and that is called động năng. Vậy this is what we do chúng ta có to định nghĩa the initial position and the final position. Vậy let me go ahead and call this the initial position and I'm going to call this here the final position and what I want to do is I want to write the total energy at each point. Vậy the total energy ví dụ initial has to be equal to the total energy at any other position. Trong trường hợp này it'll be the final. Được rồi. The total energy is composed of two terms. It's going to be I'm going to move over here it's going to be the initial động năng plus the initial electrical thế energy. And this here has to be equal to the final động năng plus the final electrical thế energy. Bây giờ what I'm going to do Bây giờ is substitute my equations in here. Vậy what is the initial động năng What's 1 1/2 and V initial bình phương plus what's the initial electrical thế energy. Well it's going to be k Q1 Q2 and divided by whatever the initial spacing was between them and this here has to be equal to the final động năng plus the final thế energy divided by our final. Được rồi Bây giờ there's a lot of terms here that are going to be equal to zero. First of all if I'm initially at rest điều đó có nghĩa là it's initially not moving. Vậy điều đó có nghĩa là that this term here has to be equal to zero. What else. Initially I have some thế energy I calculated that I actually have zero point to four jewels of electrical thế energy all of that Bây giờ is eventually going to get converted into động năng. And what happens when I'm really really far away. điều đó có nghĩa là that the spacing between the các điện tích basically tends toward infinity. Vậy if I divide by something that's really really big this term here is going to go to zero. Vậy here you're transferring all of this thế energy into động năng. My goal is định nghĩa how fast the điện tích is moving. Vậy let's go over here and chúng ta có actually an expression that we could use. Vậy again this whole term here is basically what I calculated before the zero point zero to four. Vậy I'm actually just going to leave that number the way it is. And I want to get an expression for the tốc độ using this. Vậy if I bring the two on the other side and this is my initial thế energy I also have to get rid of the mass and then at the end I'll have to take the square root in order to get the expression for the tốc độ. Được rồi. Bây giờ we could substitute in all our numbers. Vậy chúng ta có two zero point zero to four joules and the mass Bây giờ is actually important. Bây giờ the mass of the particle I've given you Đúng here is 1 times tend to the negative 6 kilograms. Được rồi. We put everything in here you're gonna get a number that is should be around two hundred nineteen meters per second. Đúng. When I'm really really far away this is the answer I get. Bây giờ if I wasn't really really far away imagine I wanted to know how fast it's moving when it's six meters away. In that case I wouldn't be able to make this simplification Đúng here. This term would not be equal to zero. Vậy I'd have to keep that there. Được rồi but this is how you can use bảo toàn năng lượng Bây giờ to solve problems.

---

**Ghi chú:** Nội dung được chuyển đổi từ bài giảng Vật lý về Điện học - Lực điện, Trường điện, Thế năng điện và Tụ điện.

*Các khái niệm chính: điện tích, lực điện, điện trường, thế điện, tụ điện*

