# Coulomb's Law Example Problem 2

## 01. Introduction

### Tóm tắt nội dung

OK Vậy here's problem two again we're going to look at the net lực tác dụng lên charged Q3. Except Bây giờ it's kind of like a two dimensional problem. Vậy let's first start again by labeling all the các lực tác dụng lên Q3. Vậy there's an interaction between Q1 and Q3 since Q1 is positive and Q3 is negative. There is an attractive lực on Q3 and that lực should be in this hướng over here. We're gonna call this lực F 1 again Được rồi. That's the hướng what else. We also have an interaction between Q2 and Q3. If I'm looking at all the các lực tác dụng lên Q3 điều đó có nghĩa là I need to add another véctơ I need to add this véctơ over here. We're gonna call this f 2 again. Again these may not be the same we're going to evaluate how big those vectors are. But for Bây giờ let's just label them like this. Vậy the first thing we're going to do is want to apply cool Ohm's Law. Let's tính toán how big is EF 1 what's the độ lớn of this véctơ. OK. Vậy in order to do this. Vậy let's write down our phương trình Vậy chúng ta có EF 1. Again it's the hằng số K that's the same Q1 Q3 and divided by again it's the khoảng cách bình phương. What's the khoảng cách Trong trường hợp này. If I go back to the figure it's going to be the khoảng cách between this guy and this guy. This is the khoảng cách D1 Trong trường hợp này it's different. Được rồi. It's not the same as what we previously had. Vậy this is D 1 bình phương. Vậy actually what you need to do Bây giờ is you need to do a little bit of math in order to find what is D 1. Well this chúng ta có thể use just Pythagorean Theorem Đúng. We know that one side is zero point for the other is zero point two. Vậy điều đó có nghĩa là that d 1 simply going to be root of zero point four bình phương plus zero point two bình phương. Được rồi. Put those numbers in the calculator. Bây giờ you should get it's approximately zero point four five meters. Được rồi. Bây giờ you can go ahead and substitute everything định nghĩa how big this các lực. Vậy we get nine times tend to the nine. Q1 was five times tend to the negative six. What else. Q3 is still negative to micro cool homes I'm not going to put the negative sign again that only tells me the hướng of the lực and at the end Bây giờ I need to divide by zero point four or five and square that value. Được. You substitute in all the numbers here. What you should find Bây giờ is a lực that's approximately equal to zero point four four Newtons. And this is the hướng here it's kind of at an angle. Được rồi. Our other goal is to find what is EF 2 Well EF 2 should be pretty much identical to the previous case that we found. Đúng. Because we haven't changed anything Vậy let's just write it down just for completeness we get K we get Q2 we get Q3 and our khoảng cách. Bây giờ this is our khoảng cách d to the khoảng cách between both of those các điện tích. Vậy we should get zero point. Well let's just call it D2 over here D2 and chúng ta có to square that value. Được rồi you could tell that the value of the độ lớn of this lực is going to be the exact same which we had one point three five Newtons. Được rồi. Let me go ahead and write this in the top figure. Vậy chúng ta có both of our các lực our goal Bây giờ is really to find what is the net lực. Vậy what you have to do Bây giờ is you have to add these up as véctơ quantities Vậy we're going to do in order to do that. We're gonna do a little bit of math. Vậy we're gonna have to break the lực F one down into two components let's start off by making a little bit of extra space we already have all our magnitudes Syriza and get rid of this information. What else I already have my độ lớn on my véctơ diagram over there. OK. Bây giờ let's go back to this figure. Bây giờ what I'm gonna do Bây giờ is I'm simply going to move this to give me a little bit of extra space but this is a f one I'll just move it over here. Được rồi. Bây giờ let's look at our diagram. This is what I'm going to do here. I have a line which is the x axis here. I'm gonna go ahead and I'm going to kind of draw a parallel line to that one. Bây giờ on the inside over here if I call this angle here theta what I want to do is I should notice that this here should also be the same angle theta. And my goal Bây giờ is simply to break the lực down into components. Vậy f 1 is a véctơ along this angle. What I'm going to do is I'm going to break it down into two components. This here is going to be the x component of f 1 and the y component of f 1 is going to be pointing down like this. Vậy this is gonna be the y component of that lực. Bây giờ if you do a little bit of trigonometry you should realize that f 1 x should be equal to the độ lớn of f 1 multiplied by coast of that angle and f 1 y should be equal to EF 1 sign of the angle theta. Vậy it would be nice if we know what that angle theta is but chúng ta có thể actually determine the angle theta by looking at our first diagram Đúng the angle theta. You could find Đúng here and I can use any of the trigonometric functions in order to find this. I'm going to use tangent. OK. If you write down tangent of theta you should say that's opposite over adjacent Đúng. Zero point two over zero point four which is just equal to one half. Vậy at the end if you take the inverse function ten negative 1 of 1 1/2 you should get an angle equal to approximately twenty six point six degrees. Được rồi Bây giờ I'm in good shape and go back and actually find what the độ lớn of both of those các lực are. Vậy for this guy here I substitute zero point four four for F one and then I do coasts of twenty six point six for the next one at zero point four four multiply by sign of twenty six point six. Được rồi. Vậy chúng ta có two magnitudes. Bây giờ we're gonna have f one x and f one y. We know the hướng by looking at our diagram F1 X and I substituted things I got approximately zero point three nine Newtons and F1 Y was approximately zero point two Newtons. Được Vậy I got to use these two values Bây giờ and in order to find the net lực you have to find the net lực in each hướng. Vậy let's go ahead and do that Bây giờ find the net lực all you have to do Bây giờ is find the net lực or the component of each one. OK. Vậy let's go ahead and write down our equations for the net lực in each hướng. Again this simply means I add up all of the các lực and I only add up their x components Trong trường hợp này there's only one and what I'm gonna do to add them up I'm going to choose just a standar$dx$ y coordinate system Vậy everything pointing to the Đúng is positive everything pointing up will also be positive. There's only one lực in the x hướng here it's this one component. And I'm going to set it as negative because it's pointing to the left. Vậy zero point three nine again positives or negatives are only telling you something about the hướng. Được rồi. Vậy chúng ta có that one how about the các lực in the vertical hướng. chúng ta có to add up all the các lực in the vertical hướng there's two. Được rồi I have F two and that one's pointing up. I'm going to call that positive and there's only one component acting down it's only this component of f one which we calculated here is zero point two. Vậy notice these have two different signs because they're in different directions. Vậy at the end the net lực in the vertical hướng is simply going to be one point one five. Được rồi. Perfect. Bây giờ the last step Bây giờ is chúng ta có it in components Vậy we may want to tính toán how big is the net lực and what does it look like on a diagram. Vậy chúng ta có a component of this net lực let's just make it black over here. chúng ta có a component of the net lực which is in the x hướng. And we also have a component which is in the vertical hướng. Vậy at the end if you add up both of those I should have a véctơ that kind of looks like this. This is really the net lực hướng first thing I could do is I can tính toán what is the độ lớn of this net lực since you know everything about the véctơ you know both of its components you simply use Pythagorean Theorem in order to solve this three nine bình phương plus one point one five bình phương again I don't have the negative sign because at the end I just end up squaring it. Whether you write it in there or not it doesn't bother me one point two Newtons is the độ lớn of this net lực. Bây giờ the other thing you may want to do also is say định nghĩa what is the angle and I say định nghĩa this angle here Alpha something like this again if you know both components you know the x component of that lực F net x and f net why we should be able to use our trigonometry in order to write down an expression for what is this angle alpha. Let me go ahead and do that over here. Let's make some space Vậy what I'm going to use is tangent again kind of like the used tangent. Vậy you should be able to write that tangent of this angle alpha tangent is going to be the opposite over the adjacent. Vậy it's f net y over f net X a substitute in our numbers and at the end you want to take the inverse. Vậy Alpha is tan of negative 1 F net Y was one point one five and F net was f net X. We had zero point three nine the độ lớn. Được. You should get an angle alpha that's approximately equal to seventy one point two degrees. Được go ahead and draw that one here in this figure seventy one point two degrees. Bây giờ depending on how you định nghĩa it you could have defined this angle at the end that doesn't really matter as long as you have a véctơ where you have a độ lớn and you have some hướng or you could also just write it down in two components. chúng ta có an X and a y component. We've defined the total lực tác dụng lên a điện tích q three.

---

**Ghi chú:** Nội dung được chuyển đổi từ bài giảng Vật lý về Điện học - Lực điện, Trường điện, Thế năng điện và Tụ điện.

*Các khái niệm chính: điện tích, lực điện, điện trường, thế điện, tụ điện*

