# Suy ra khác về Dịch Doppler Tương đối - Sử dụng Biến đổi Lorentz

---

**Chương:** Dịch Doppler Tương đối và Radar

---

## Tóm tắt nội dung

*Nội dung chính được trình bày dưới đây với các thuật ngữ vật lý tương đối tính*

---

## Nội dung chi tiết

### Đoạn 1

All right, so finally, if you're still not 100 percent convinced by a derivation, we can get the same result by making use of a Lawrence transformation that we painstakingly derived previously. OK, so this is also going to give you some more experience, more exposure to how we actually use the Lawrence transformations, what we found previously.

### Đoạn 2

The last transformation, in fact, is sort of the inverse Lawrence transformation. This is what it's sometimes called in textbooks is that if we only have measurements as measured by somebody in the moving reference frame or fill up in the USS Enterprise, in this case, we can figure out the measurements of around the length X and the time T. as measured by somebody in the radar station,

### Đoạn 3

for example, such as Terence. Through the following expressions, and so this is a previous assault we obtained. What we do is we could take another look at the the electromagnetic we that's being transmitted out from this radar station.

### Đoạn 4

So recall again, we've been using that Terence and his reference frame. He said that as measured by my radar system, the actual way that sent out is some kind of amplitude a times cosine times a mega T minus K X-ray. You should be really familiar with the sky now.

### Đoạn 5

So in order to figure out what the wave looks like in fill ups reference frame, we need the function in terms of x prime and prime not to index. So to do that, all we need to do is would use this guide. This is our map.

### Đoạn 6

This is our bridge that helps us walk over to the other side to see things from a different perspective. So we take out our trusty map. We look up what we want. We say, OK, I want to see what X is in terms of X Priority Prime, and we literally plug in shot baby.

### Đoạn 7

So we take this guy and we see that we want to get rid of T. So for T for this portion here, and I'll make it easy for you guys to see what's going on this guy here, this is T. So for T, we know that gamma times t prime plus v rel um.

### Đoạn 8

Or rather, let's back up. So what we want is to see and what we could do is receive a T right here. We love that game and that's just gamma times T prime plus v real times x prime over c squared. Literally just plug it in.

### Đoạn 9

Then we have a minus K and make it easier. This guy is X. Our XTerm, so we know from our trusty map, and this tells us that it should actually be gamma times x prime plus v real time Steve.

### Đoạn 10

OK. All I did is substitute in some parameters here, and all we need to do is just simplify and see what happens. So what we could do is we could say initially we got, oh, for the first time, we got a gamma omega

### Đoạn 11

t prime. That's that guy. And then we have to add a gamma omega times v relative times x prime or C squared. That's this guy right here.

### Đoạn 12

Now we subtract the K Omega and x prime. That's that guy right there and then subtract a K omega v relative times to prime, which is that guy right there. And what we want to do now is try to combine terms and find what is in front of the Omega.

### Đoạn 13

See how the omega is modified. So we want to put it back to this central form here. One Omega times T minus K times x. So let's try and group the omega T prime terms.

### Đoạn 14

And if we do that, what we do is first I'm going to group them next to each other. So for this step, right here, we got a gamma omega T, right, and we want to get this guy close to here. In order to do that, we make we have to make note that K is equal to Omega oversee or rather.

### Đoạn 15

Yeah, Omega is equal to Casey Omega over sea is equal to K, and we use this to go from here. Down to there. So we take this guy. We plank up back, put a mega oversee in there and we get a subtraction side a minus, or let's back

### Đoạn 16

up, let's make sure we're keeping track of our time. So we've got this term here. Now we're going to get this term, which is right down here. I'll check out down here.

### Đoạn 17

So this term is just minus gamma omega oversee the Omega, there's a c Typekit prime and then we need our B relative. So that's that term, then we're going to get this term next. So, yeah, plus gamma omega well, for X Prime, we want something that looks like this, so we want

### Đoạn 18

to get rid of that omega and get a K in there. So that's omega is just KC. So this is going to be plus Gamma K and C. It cancels with that guy. So we get Gamma K v relative, oversee that guy right there.

### Đoạn 19

Bam, we're done with that. So we only have one more turn and this is a minus gamma k x prime and we got that guy right there. And now all we need to do is group terms. So again, we want to put it in this form and see what we're really interested in is what this looks

### Đoạn 20

like in this reference frame. The X prime time reference frame. OK, so we're going to try and figure out what that looks like by grouping Omega TS to make a Prime T primes and figure out what's in front.

### Đoạn 21

So what we have is we see common terms of. And here a gamma omega t prime, there's a cameo omega t prime. So that's the commentary. I'm going to pull that out.

### Đoạn 22

We got a gamma omega t from. So that is multiply by one minus v relative a receipt. That's that term right there. And we could do the same thing for K Richard in that.

### Đoạn 23

We're interested really in the frequency. So it's not going to be much use to us, but authors do that anyway. So we know we want a minus K X.. And all I want to do is with the key terms over here, find common factors, be a mechanic prime that's

### Đoạn 24

common here. So we Malta or rather we subtract gamma k x gamma k x times one for this term, which gives you the negative and an a minus. The minus can't get a plus sign right there, minus the relative over C that's that term.

### Đoạn 25

So or interested in is this guy right here? We're going to pull that off the equation. And in essence, all we did just back up a little bit is we took out our trusty map, the Lorenz transformation. We're trying to bridge the gap between an infinite set of perceptions of the universe, and that allowed

### Đoạn 26

us to really transition over to different ways of measuring things. A different perspective, if you will. So we translated this equation here into a different equation as measured by fill up, and we got the following assertion.

### Đoạn 27

This tells us that our new omega, which is always the term in front of the T, is this gamma one minus v relativistic omega? This guy? Well, if you recall.

### Đoạn 28

Omega is just two PI. Times the frequency. So if we want to get our terms back, we could say if we multiply by one or two pot each on mega on both sides, we get our frequencies back.

### Đoạn 29

And what can you tell me about this equation? Right over to that. This is the same result that we obtained previously, so again, we've done this three times, you feel very comfortable with the relativistic Doppler shift that we are getting the correct precise result.

### Đoạn 30

Next, we want to do is, if you recall, this is just what we call up seas on the USS Enterprise, but we know that he's also going to send signals back when this bounces off a target. And that's going to fly another Doppler shift, as we talked about previously. And we want to figure out the two way Doppler shift that results due to this.

### Đoạn 31

OK, so that's what we're going to tackle next.

---

## Công thức Toán học

```latex
% Các công thức toán học quan trọng trong bài:
% - Phương trình Lorentz
% - Công thức giãn thời gian
% - Công thức co lại chiều dài
% - Công thức động lượng tương đối
% - Công thức năng lượng tương đối
```

---

## Thuật ngữ quan trọng

- **Hệ quy chiếu (Reference Frame)**: Hệ tọa độ dùng để mô tả chuyển động
- **Hệ quy chiếu quán tính (Inertial Reference Frame)**: Hệ quy chiếu chuyển động với vận tốc không đổi
- **Thời gian riêng (Proper Time)**: Thời gian đo được trong hệ quy chiếu của đồng hồ
- **Biến đổi Lorentz (Lorentz Transformation)**: Phép biến đổi tọa độ trong không-thời gian tương đối

